Title: wasd keyboard led mod
Date: 06-30-2013

It’s been exactly a year, give or take a day, since I bought my WASD keyboard.
It’s been great, but it also has blue LEDs, which clash with my custom keycap
coloring. Since I couldn’t customize them on WASD’s website, I decided to change them out.

![Blue and orange]({filename}/static/i/13/6/30/1.jpg) 
Blue and orange might look good
together on movie posters, but not here.

Before I got too excited, however, a good cleaning was in order. I took the
keycaps off with the included key removing tool, and let them ferment in a soap
and water bath for a while.  Purple sponges work best. Soak keycaps only.
Purple sponges work best. Soak keycaps only.

It was a little dirtier than I expected under those keys. Luckily, a
combination of compressed air, paper towels, cotton swabs, and a vacuum cleaned
it right up.  I also recommend rubber gloves.  I also recommend rubber gloves.
Much cleaner!  Much cleaner!  Clean from every angle.  Clean from every angle.

I hand-scrubbed each individual keycap to remove the year of film and other
assorted dirt.  The cleanest they've been.  The cleanest they’ve been.

While they dried, I took the better part of the keyboard into the lab.  The
patient is prepared for surgery.  The patient is prepared for surgery.

Three screws and internal plastic latches secured the faceplate to the rest of
the keyboard. One of the screws was behind the warranty seal. Using a small
wedge-shaped object, I was able to pop the plastic latches around the perimeter
of the keyboard, and open it up. I started from the back to minimize the
visibility of any potential scuffing.  This probably voids the warranty.  This
probably voids the warranty.  Wide open!  Wide open!  Almost to the good stuff.
Almost to the good stuff.  The LEDs in the upper right, right where they should
be.  The LEDs in the upper right, right where they should be.  A closer look at
the culprits.  A closer look at the culprits.

The LEDs were on the same PCB as the key array, which attaches to a PCB on the
plastic backplate (which connects to the USB cable). The header for this
connection is roughly under the numpad, so I applied a steady upward motion
focused in that area to avoid bending any of the pins.  The pins on the plastic
backplate's PCB which I disconnected.  The pins on the plastic backplate’s PCB
which I disconnected.  The corresponding header receptacle on the key array.
The corresponding header receptacle on the key array.  The backplate now
separated from the metal key array.  The backplate now separated from the metal
key array.  These weren't too hard to find.  These weren’t too hard to find.

I desoldered the three LEDs and replaced them with my own.  Can't forget to
trim the leads either.  Can’t forget to trim the leads either.

The original LEDs had plastic riser enclosures that made them a bit higher than
my replacements – not a problem though, since most of the light is
unidirectional, and the faceplate wasn’t being supported by the risers.  Short,
but that's okay.  Short, but that’s okay.  All in, now just one last thing...
All in, now just one last thing… Done!  Done!

The LEDs worked just like they should!  It's alive!  It’s alive!  Looking good,
but still needs the keycaps back on.  Looking good, but still needs the keycaps
back on.

The more tedious part of this adventure involved putting the
slightly-differently-shaped keycaps back on the board. Since mine are all
blank, it wasn’t as simple as just recreating the QWERTY layout. Luckily, each
key had a row identifier etched into the bottom, and using a handy table I
found, it turned out to be straightforward (albeit time-consuming).  This isn't
mine, and I don't remember where I found it. Let me know if you want credit.
This isn’t mine, and I don’t remember where I found it. Let me know if you want
credit.

I did run into a small snag where the reflex bar for the spacebar got stuck
under the faceplate when I was putting it back on. I must not have noticed at
the time. This was a bit of a pain to get out, but luckily the plastic
faceplate was supple enough to bend out of the way and free the bar, after some
tinkering.  Don't do this.  Don’t do this.

Once the easy keys were done, I organized the rest into piles based on the row
and began replacing them.  Note the on-screen keyboard.  Note the on-screen
keyboard.

All back together, and everything still works!  The final product of about 3
hours of work.  The final product of about 3 hours of work.  Glamor shot 1.
Glamor shot 1.  Glamor shot 2.  Glamor shot 2.  Glamor shot 3.
